# Graph neural networks for recommendations

This repository contains the code for the AI project course and is an attempt to use graph neural networks for recommendations.
The recommendations generated are for the H&M fashion recommendation challenge. 


## Project structure

First of all to run the code it is important to have the requirements installed. This can be done by running the following command:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The data for the project that is obtained from the H&M challenge on Kaggle. 
The csv files should be placed in the data folder under the csv subfolder.

To work with parquet files, the csv files should be converted to parquet files using the following [notebook](./2%20FE/RadekDataProcessing.ipynb).
These datafiles will be created in the data folder under the parquet subfolder.

I moved the most interesting result graphs to the Result folder.

## Data Directory structure
- data
    - csv
        - all csv files from the H&M challenge
    - parquet
        - all parquet files created from the csv files. Created using this [notebook](./2%20FE/RadekDataProcessing.ipynb)
    - dgsr
        - all processed data files for the DGSR model. Created using this [notebook](./3%20DGSR/03-DGSR.ipynb).
    - HMDataset
        - directory used by our custom pytorch geometric dataset used by LightGCN.
    - LightGCN
        - all results files generated by LightGCN. 

## Running the code
### DGSR

All information needed to run the DGSR model can be found in the [DGSR](./3%20DGSR/03-DGSR.ipynb) notebook.

### LightGCN

All information needed to run the LightGCN model can be found in the [LightGCN](./4%20GNN/LightGCN.ipynb) notebook.